.TH xshisen 6 "Oct 6, 1995" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xshisen \- Shisen-sho puzzle game for X11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xshisen [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR xshisen
is a puzzle game for X11.  Similar to the famous "Shang-hai", your 
objective is to remove all the pieces on the board.
.IR xshisen
requires a pointing device like mouse.  It cannot be controlled
with only keyboard.

.SH RULES
The game will over when you remove all the pieces on the board.
The pieces can be removed only when both of the following
conditions are true.

.TP 4
.B (1)
The 2 pieces have the same picture
.TP 4
.B (2)
The 2 pieces can be connected with up to 3 lines which do not go
over other pieces.

.TP 0
It may seem difficult rule, but is easier than describing in
words.  "Auto-demo" mode must be very useful for you to understand 
the rule.

.SS Score
The best scores will be recorded at
\fIxshisen\-scores\fP
file under the directory specified by
\fIXSHISENLIB\fP
environment variable.  X resources "libDirectory" will be valid if 
the environment variable is not set.
Note that the score will not be recorded if you use even one of "Back", 
"Search", or "Restart".

.SH OPTIONS
The following command line options are available.
.TP 8
.B standard Xt options
.IR xshisen
accepts standard toolkit options like \fB-display\fR, or \fB-iconic\fR.
.TP 8
.B -demo
Auto-demo mode.  You cannot play game with this mode, but the game 
will proceed by computer automated algorithm.  This mode is quite
useful for you to understand rules.
.TP 8
.B -score
Just displays the best score dialog and exits.
.TP 8
.B \-mag number
Magnify main window by \fBnumber\fR times.  The standard window
will be 640x400.  \fBNumber\fR may be a decimal, but the range is
limited from 0.5 to the display size.
.TP 8
.B \-fn fontlist
Use \fBfontlist\fR for menubar and times.
.TP 8
.B \-large
Play double sized game.  Game size can be changed with menubar
after you started \fIxshisen\fP.  Each game size has independent
best time records.
.TP 8
.B \-huge
Play quadruple sized game.  Game size can be changed with menubar
after you started \fIxshisen\fP.  Each game size has independent
best time records.
.TP 8
.B \-trial
Play as "Click Trial" mode.  You can measure your mouse operation
speed with this feature.
.TP 8
.B \-gravity
Enable gravity effect.  All the pieces above the removed pieces
will fall down.

.SH RESOURCE
The following resources are available.
.TP 8
.B XShisen*fitPixmap
If this value is \fBTrue\fR, the initial window size will be
automatically calculated with the pixmap data size.
When this value is \fBFalse\fR, the initial window size is
determined by the \fBwidth\fR and \fBheight\fR resources.  The
pixmap data will be resized in this case.  Default value is
\fBTrue\fR.
.TP 8
.B XShisen*width
Width of the initial window.  This resource is ignored when
\fBfitPixmap\fR
resource is set to
\fBTrue\fR.
Default value is 640.
.TP 8
.B XShisen*height
Height of the initial window.  This resource is ignored when
\fBfitPixmap\fR
resource is set to
\fBTrue\fR.
Default value is 400.
.TP 8
.B XShisen*scoreFile
This resource specifies the score file name.  This file name must
not contain the directory name.  Default value is "xshisen-scores".
.TP 8
.B XShisen*connectLineTime
The delay time in mili-second between you clicke the pair and the
pair is actually removed from screen.  This value should be enough 
big for beginners, but experts may want this value smaller in
order to play quickly.  Default value is 1000 mili-seconds.
.TP 8
.B XShisen*connectLineColor
This specifies the connection line color which appears when pieces 
are being removed.
Default value is "blue".
.TP 8
.B XShisen*connectLineWidth
This specifies the connection line width in pixel. Default value
is 6.
.TP 8
.B XShisen*background
Background color. Default value is #004000.
.TP 8
.B XShisen*libraryDirectory
The directory where the pixmap data and the best score file is
located.  This resource is ignored when you specify the
.IR XSHISENLIB
environment variable.
.TP 8
.B XShisen*drawing.translations
Button binding setting for your mouse.  Default is
.NF

      <Btn1Down>: #replace PickupPiece() \n <Btn3Down>: CancelPiece()

.FI

.SH MENU BAR AND KEYBOARD
.TP 8
.B Start (Control + D)
Starts new game. The pieces are located at random position.
.TP 8
.B Restart (Control + R)
Restarts the current game. The time of restarted game will not be
recorded as the best score.
.TP 8
.B Pause (Control + P)
Pauses the game. The time count will be stopped, but also the
pieces picture will be hidden.  You can resume your game to do
"Pause" again.
.TP 8
.B Exit
Exits the Shisen-sho.
.TP 8
.B Search (F1)
Teaches the pair you can remove now.  You can use "Search"
anytime, but the time will not be recorded as the best score if
you use "Search" even once.
.TP
.B Back (F5)
Backs one step.  The time will not be recorded if you use "Back".

.SH MOUSE CONTROL
The following mouse control is available.  You can change mouse
button bindings with
\fBXShisen*drawing.translations\fR resource.
.TP 8
.B Button 1
Specifies the piece to remove.  You can cencel the selection when
you click the selected piece again.
.TP 8
.B Button 3
Cancels the selected piece.  You can use button 3 after "Search",
which cancels the search result.

.SH AUTHORS
Shisen-sho for X11: Masaoki Kobayashi
.RE
Picture: Takayuki Akiyama

.SH COPYRIGHT
XShisen Copyright 1995,1996,1999,2002 by Masaoki Kobayashi <masaoki@techfirm.co.jp>.
Picture#1 Copyright by Takayuki Akiyama <taco3@ybb.ne.jp>.
Picture#2 Copyright by Mario Weilguni <mweilguni@sime.com>.
See LICENSE file for detail.
